Date of publication xxxx 00, 0000, date of current version xxxx 00, 0000.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2024.0429000

Preparation of Papers for IEEE ACCESS
FIRST A. AUTHOR6661 , (Fellow, IEEE), SECOND B. AUTHOR2 , and Third C. Author, Jr.3 , (Member,
IEEE)

1

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Boulder, CO 80305 USA (e-mail: author@boulder.nist.gov)
Department of Physics, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523 USA (e-mail: author@lamar.colostate.edu)
3
Electrical Engineering Department, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309 USA
2

Corresponding author: First A. Author (e-mail: author@ boulder.nist.gov).
This paragraph of the first footnote will contain support information, including sponsor and financial support acknowledgment. For example,
‘‘This work was supported in part by the U.S. Department of Commerce under Grant BS123456.’’

ABSTRACT These instructions give you guidelines for preparing papers for IEEE Access. Use this document
as a template if you are using LATEX. Otherwise, use this document as an instruction set. The electronic file of
your paper will be formatted further at IEEE. Paper titles should be written in uppercase and lowercase letters,
not all uppercase. Avoid writing long formulas with subscripts in the title; short formulas that identify the
elements are fine (e.g., "Nd–Fe–B"). Do not write ‘‘(Invited)’’ in the title. Full names of authors are preferred
in the author field, but are not required. Put a space between authors’ initials. The abstract must be a concise
yet comprehensive reflection of what is in your article. In particular, the abstract must be self-contained,
without abbreviations, footnotes, or references. It should be a microcosm of the full article. The abstract
must be between 150–250 words. Be sure that you adhere to these limits; otherwise, you will need to edit
your abstract accordingly. The abstract must be written as one paragraph, and should not contain displayed
mathematical equations or tabular material. The abstract should include three or four different keywords or
phrases, as this will help readers to find it. It is important to avoid over-repetition of such phrases as this can
result in a page being rejected by search engines. Ensure that your abstract reads well and is grammatically
correct.
INDEX TERMS Enter key words or phrases in alphabetical order, separated by commas. Autocorrelation,
beamforming, communications technology, dictionary learning, feedback, fMRI, mmWave, multipath, system
design, multipath, slight fault, underlubrication fault.

I. INTRODUCTION

A. ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

T

Define abbreviations and acronyms the first time they are used
in the text, even after they have already been defined in the
abstract. Abbreviations such as IEEE, SI, ac, and dc do not
have to be defined. Abbreviations that incorporate periods
should not have spaces: write ‘‘C.N.R.S.,’’ not ‘‘C. N. R. S.’’
Do not use abbreviations in the title unless they are unavoidable
(for example, ‘‘IEEE’’ in the title of this article).

HIS document is a template for LATEX. If you are
reading a paper or PDF version of this document,
please download the LaTeX template or the MS Word
template of your preferred publication from the IEEE Website at https://template-selector.ieee.org/secure/templateSelec
tor/publicationType so you can use it to prepare your
manuscript. If you would prefer to use LaTeX, download IEEE’s LaTeX style and sample files from the same
Web page. You can also explore using the Overleaf editor
at https://www.overleaf.com/blog/278-how-to-use-overleafwith-ieee-collabratec-your-quick-guide-to-getting-started
#.xsVp6tpPkrKM9
IEEE will do the final formatting of your paper. If your paper
is intended for a conference, please observe the conference
page limits.

VOLUME 11, 2023

B. OTHER RECOMMENDATIONS

Use one space after periods and colons. Hyphenate complex
modifiers: ‘‘zero-field-cooled magnetization.’’ Avoid dangling
participles, such as, ‘‘Using (1), the potential was calculated.’’
[It is not clear who or what used (1).] Write instead, ‘‘The
potential was calculated by using (1),’’ or ‘‘Using (1), we
calculated the potential.’’
Use a zero before decimal points: ‘‘0.25,’’ not ‘‘.25.’’ Use
‘‘cm3 ,’’ not ‘‘cc.’’ Indicate sample dimensions as ‘‘0.1 cm × 0.2
1

Author et al.: Preparation of Papers for IEEE TRANSACTIONS and JOURNALS

cm,’’ not ‘‘0.1 × 0.2 cm2 .’’ The abbreviation for ‘‘seconds’’ is
‘‘s,’’ not ‘‘sec.’’ Use ‘‘Wb/m2 ’’ or ‘‘webers per square meter,’’
not ‘‘webers/m2 .’’ When expressing a range of values, write
‘‘7 to 9’’ or ‘‘7–9,’’ not ‘‘7∼9.’’
A parenthetical statement at the end of a sentence is
punctuated outside of the closing parenthesis (like this). (A
parenthetical sentence is punctuated within the parentheses.) In
American English, periods and commas are within quotation
marks, like ‘‘this period.’’ Other punctuation is ‘‘outside’’!
Avoid contractions; for example, write ‘‘do not’’ instead of
‘‘don’t.’’ The serial comma is preferred: ‘‘A, B, and C’’ instead
of ‘‘A, B and C.’’
If you wish, you may write in the first person singular or
plural and use the active voice (‘‘I observed that . . .’’ or ‘‘We
observed that . . .’’ instead of ‘‘It was observed that . . .’’).
Remember to check spelling. If your native language is not
English, please get a native English-speaking colleague to
carefully proofread your paper.
Try not to use too many typefaces in the same article.
Also please remember that MathJax can’t handle really weird
typefaces.
C. EQUATIONS

Number equations consecutively with equation numbers in
parentheses flush with the right margin, as in (1). To make
your equations more compact, you may use the solidus ( / ),
the exp function, or appropriate exponents. Use parentheses to
avoid ambiguities in denominators. Punctuate equations when
they are part of a sentence, as in
E = mc2 .

(1)

The following 2 equations are used to test your LaTeX
compiler’s math output. Equation (2) is your LaTeX compiler’
output. Equation (3) is an image of what (2) should look like.
Please make sure that your equation (2) matches (3) in terms
of symbols and characters’ font style (Ex: italic/roman).
47i + 89jk × 10rym ± 2npz
Pr
(6XYZ πKu)Aoq i=1 Q(t)

s
Z∞
abcdelqh2
f (g)dx 3
. (2)
(svw) cos3 θ
0

Please don’t use the {eqnarray} equation environment. Use {align} or {IEEEeqnarray} instead. The
{eqnarray} environment leaves unsightly spaces around
relation symbols.
Please note that the {subequations} environment in
LATEX will increment the main equation counter even when
there are no equation numbers displayed. If you forget that,
you might write an article in which the equation numbers skip
from (17) to (20), causing the copy editors to wonder if you’ve
discovered a new method of counting.
BibTEX does not work by magic. It doesn’t get the bibliographic data from thin air but from .bib files. If you use BibTEX
to produce a bibliography you must send the .bib files.
LATEX can’t read your mind. If you assign the same label to
a subsubsection and a table, you might find that Table I has
been cross referenced as Table IV-B3.
LATEX does not have precognitive abilities. If you put a
\label command before the command that updates the
counter it’s supposed to be using, the label will pick up the last
counter to be cross referenced instead. In particular, a \label
command should not go before the caption of a figure or a
table.
Do not use \nonumber inside the {array} environment.
It will not stop equation numbers inside {array} (there
won’t be any anyway) and it might stop a wanted equation
number in the surrounding equation.
II. UNITS

Use either SI (MKS) or CGS as primary units. (SI units are
strongly encouraged.) English units may be used as secondary
units (in parentheses). This applies to papers in data storage.
For example, write ‘‘15 Gb/cm2 (100 Gb/in2 ).’’ An exception
is when English units are used as identifiers in trade, such
as ‘‘31/2 -in disk drive.’’ Avoid combining SI and CGS units,
such as current in amperes and magnetic field in oersteds. This
often leads to confusion because equations do not balance
dimensionally. If you must use mixed units, clearly state the
units for each quantity in an equation.
The SI unit for magnetic field strength H is A/m. However,
if you wish to use units of T, either refer to magnetic flux
density B or magnetic field strength symbolized as µ0 H . Use
the center dot to separate compound units, e.g., ‘‘A·m2 .’’
III. SOME COMMON MISTAKES

Be sure that the symbols in your equation have been defined
before the equation appears or immediately following. Italicize
symbols (T might refer to temperature, but T is the unit tesla).
Refer to ‘‘(1),’’ not ‘‘Eq. (1)’’ or ‘‘equation (1),’’ except at the
beginning of a sentence: ‘‘Equation (1) is . . . .’’
D. LATEX-SPECIFIC ADVICE

Please use ‘‘soft’’ (e.g., \eqref{Eq}) cross references
instead of ‘‘hard’’ references (e.g., (1)). That will make it
possible to combine sections, add equations, or change the
order of figures or citations without having to go through the
file line by line.
2

The word ‘‘data’’ is plural, not singular. The subscript for
the permeability of vacuum µ0 is zero, not a lowercase letter
‘‘o.’’ The term for residual magnetization is ‘‘remanence’’;
the adjective is ‘‘remanent’’; do not write ‘‘remnance’’ or
‘‘remnant.’’ Use the word ‘‘micrometer’’ instead of ‘‘micron.’’
A graph within a graph is an ‘‘inset,’’ not an ‘‘insert.’’ The
word ‘‘alternatively’’ is preferred to the word ‘‘alternately’’
(unless you really mean something that alternates). Use the
word ‘‘whereas’’ instead of ‘‘while’’ (unless you are referring
to simultaneous events). Do not use the word ‘‘essentially’’ to
mean ‘‘approximately’’ or ‘‘effectively.’’ Do not use the word
‘‘issue’’ as a euphemism for ‘‘problem.’’ When compositions
VOLUME 11, 2023

Author et al.: Preparation of Papers for IEEE TRANSACTIONS and JOURNALS

FIGURE 1: Magnetization as a function of applied field. It is good practice to explain the significance of the figure in the
caption.

are not specified, separate chemical symbols by en-dashes;
for example, ‘‘NiMn’’ indicates the intermetallic compound
Ni0.5 Mn0.5 whereas ‘‘Ni–Mn’’ indicates an alloy of some
composition Nix Mn1−x .
Be aware of the different meanings of the homophones
‘‘affect’’ (usually a verb) and ‘‘effect’’ (usually a noun),
‘‘complement’’ and ‘‘compliment,’’ ‘‘discreet’’ and ‘‘discrete,’’
‘‘principal’’ (e.g., ‘‘principal investigator’’) and ‘‘principle’’
(e.g., ‘‘principle of measurement’’). Do not confuse ‘‘imply’’
and ‘‘infer.’’
Prefixes such as ‘‘non,’’ ‘‘sub,’’ ‘‘micro,’’ ‘‘multi,’’ and
‘‘ultra’’ are not independent words; they should be joined to
the words they modify, usually without a hyphen. There is
no period after the ‘‘et’’ in the Latin abbreviation ‘‘et al.’’
(it is also italicized). The abbreviation ‘‘i.e.,’’ means ‘‘that
is,’’ and the abbreviation ‘‘e.g.,’’ means ‘‘for example’’ (these
abbreviations are not italicized).
A general IEEE styleguide is available at
http://www.ieee.org/authortools.

2) Line Art figures

Figures that are composed of only black lines and shapes.
These figures should have no shades or half-tones of gray,
only black and white.
3) Author photos

Author photographs should be included with the author biographies located at the end of the article underneath References.
4) Tables

Data charts which are typically black and white, but sometimes
include color.
B. MULTIPART FIGURES

Figures compiled of more than one sub-figure presented sideby-side, or stacked. If a multipart figure is made up of multiple
figure types (one part is lineart, and another is grayscale or
color) the figure should meet the stricter guidelines.
C. FILE FORMATS FOR GRAPHICS

IV. GUIDELINES FOR GRAPHICS PREPARATION AND
SUBMISSION
A. TYPES OF GRAPHICS

The following list outlines the different types of graphics
published in IEEE journals. They are categorized based on
their construction, and use of color/shades of gray:
1) Color/Grayscale figures

Figures that are meant to appear in color, or shades of black/gray. Such figures may include photographs, illustrations,
multicolor graphs, and flowcharts. For multicolor graphs,
please avoid any gray backgrounds or shading, as well as
screenshots, instead export the graph from the program used
to collect the data.
VOLUME 11, 2023

Format and save your graphics using a suitable graphics
processing program that will allow you to create the images
as PostScript (.PS), Encapsulated PostScript (.EPS), Tagged
Image File Format (.TIFF), Portable Document Format (.PDF),
Portable Network Graphics (.PNG), or Metapost (.MPS), sizes
them, and adjusts the resolution settings. When submitting
your final paper, your graphics should all be submitted individually in one of these formats along with the manuscript.
D. SIZING OF GRAPHICS

Most charts, graphs, and tables are one column wide (3.5
inches/88 millimeters/21 picas) or page wide (7.16 inches/181
millimeters/43 picas). The maximum depth a graphic can be
is 8.5 inches (216 millimeters/54 picas). When choosing the
depth of a graphic, please allow space for a caption. Figures
3

Author et al.: Preparation of Papers for IEEE TRANSACTIONS and JOURNALS

TABLE 1: Units for Magnetic Properties
Symbol Quantity
Φ
B

Conversion from Gaussian and
CGS EMU to SI a
1 Mx → 10−8 Wb = 10−8 V·s
1 G → 10−4 T = 10−4 Wb/m2

magnetic flux
magnetic flux density,
magnetic induction
H
magnetic field strength 1 Oe → 103 /(4π) A/m
m
magnetic moment
1 erg/G = 1 emu
→ 10−3 A·m2 = 10−3 J/T
M
magnetization
1 erg/(G·cm3 ) = 1 emu/cm3
→ 103 A/m
4πM
magnetization
1 G → 103 /(4π) A/m
σ
specific magnetization 1 erg/(G·g) = 1 emu/g → 1 A·m2 /kg
j
magnetic dipole
1 erg/G = 1 emu
moment
→ 4π × 10−10 Wb·m
J
magnetic polarization 1 erg/(G·cm3 ) = 1 emu/cm3
→ 4π × 10−4 T
χ, κ
susceptibility
1 → 4π
χρ
mass susceptibility
1 cm3 /g → 4π × 10−3 m3 /kg
µ
permeability
1 → 4π × 10−7 H/m
= 4π × 10−7 Wb/(A·m)
µr
relative permeability
µ → µr
w, W
energy density
1 erg/cm3 → 10−1 J/m3
N, D
demagnetizing factor
1 → 1/(4π)
Vertical lines are optional in tables. Statements that serve as captions for the
entire table do not need footnote letters.
a Gaussian units are the same as cg emu for magnetostatics; Mx = maxwell, G
= gauss, Oe = oersted; Wb = weber, V = volt, s = second, T = tesla, m =
meter, A = ampere, J = joule, kg = kilogram, H = henry.

can be sized between column and page widths if the author
chooses, however it is recommended that figures are not sized
less than column width unless when necessary.
There is currently one publication with column measurements that do not coincide with those listed above. Proceedings
of the IEEE has a column measurement of 3.25 inches (82.5
millimeters/19.5 picas).
The final printed size of author photographs is exactly
1 inch wide by 1.25 inches tall (25.4 millimeters × 31.75
millimeters/6 picas × 7.5 picas). Author photos printed in
editorials measure 1.59 inches wide by 2 inches tall (40
millimeters × 50 millimeters/9.5 picas × 12 picas).
E. RESOLUTION

The proper resolution of your figures will depend on the type
of figure it is as defined in the ‘‘Types of Figures’’ section.
Author photographs, color, and grayscale figures should be at
least 300dpi. Line art, including tables should be a minimum
of 600dpi.

used with on-screen graphics, whereas CMYK is used for
printing purposes.
All color figures should be generated in RGB or CMYK
color space. Grayscale images should be submitted in
Grayscale color space. Line art may be provided in grayscale
OR bitmap colorspace. Note that ‘‘bitmap colorspace’’ and
‘‘bitmap file format’’ are not the same thing. When bitmap
color space is selected, .TIF/.TIFF/.PNG are the recommended
file formats.
H. ACCEPTED FONTS WITHIN FIGURES

When preparing your graphics IEEE suggests that you use of
one of the following Open Type fonts: Times New Roman,
Helvetica, Arial, Cambria, and Symbol. If you are supplying
EPS, PS, or PDF files all fonts must be embedded. Some fonts
may only be native to your operating system; without the fonts
embedded, parts of the graphic may be distorted or missing.
A safe option when finalizing your figures is to strip out the
fonts before you save the files, creating ‘‘outline’’ type. This
converts fonts to artwork what will appear uniformly on any
screen.
I. USING LABELS WITHIN FIGURES
1) Figure Axis labels

Figure axis labels are often a source of confusion. Use words
rather than symbols. As an example, write the quantity ‘‘Magnetization,’’ or ‘‘Magnetization M,’’ not just ‘‘M.’’ Put units
in parentheses. Do not label axes only with units. As in Fig. 1,
for example, write ‘‘Magnetization (A/m)’’ or ‘‘Magnetization
(A·m−1 ),’’ not just ‘‘A/m.’’ Do not label axes with a ratio of
quantities and units. For example, write ‘‘Temperature (K),’’
not ‘‘Temperature/K.’’
Multipliers can be especially confusing. Write ‘‘Magnetization (kA/m)’’ or ‘‘Magnetization (103 A/m).’’ Do not write
‘‘Magnetization (A/m) × 1000’’ because the reader would not
know whether the top axis label in Fig. 1 meant 16000 A/m or
0.016 A/m. Figure labels should be legible, approximately 8
to 10 point type.
2) Subfigure Labels in Multipart Figures and Tables

Multipart figures should be combined and labeled before
final submission. Labels should appear centered below each
subfigure in 8 point Times New Roman font in the format of
(a) (b) (c).

F. VECTOR ART

In order to preserve the figures’ integrity across multiple
computer platforms, we accept files in the following formats:
.EPS/.PDF/.PS. All fonts must be embedded or text converted
to outlines in order to achieve the best-quality results.
G. COLOR SPACE

The term color space refers to the entire sum of colors that can
be represented within the said medium. For our purposes, the
three main color spaces are Grayscale, RGB (red/green/blue)
and CMYK (cyan/magenta/yellow/black). RGB is generally
4

J. FILE NAMING

Figures (line artwork or photographs) should be named starting
with the first 5 letters of the author’s last name. The next
characters in the filename should be the number that represents
the sequential location of this image in your article. For
example, in author ‘‘Anderson’s’’ paper, the first three figures
would be named ander1.tif, ander2.tif, and ander3.ps.
Tables should contain only the body of the table (not the
caption) and should be named similarly to figures, except that
‘.t’ is inserted in-between the author’s name and the table
VOLUME 11, 2023

Author et al.: Preparation of Papers for IEEE TRANSACTIONS and JOURNALS

number. For example, author Anderson’s first three tables
would be named ander.t1.tif, ander.t2.ps, ander.t3.eps.
Author photographs should be named using the first five
characters of the pictured author’s last name. For example,
four author photographs for a paper may be named: oppen.ps,
moshc.tif, chen.eps, and duran.pdf.
If two authors or more have the same last name, their first
initial(s) can be substituted for the fifth, fourth, third. . . letters
of their surname until the degree where there is differentiation.
For example, two authors Michael and Monica Oppenheimer’s
photos would be named oppmi.tif, and oppmo.eps.
K. REFERENCING A FIGURE OR TABLE WITHIN YOUR
PAPER

When referencing your figures and tables within your paper,
use the abbreviation ‘‘Fig.’’ even at the beginning of a sentence.
Figures should be numbered with Arabic Numerals. Do not
abbreviate ‘‘Table.’’ Tables should be numbered with Roman
Numerals.
L. SUBMITTING YOUR GRAPHICS

Figures should be submitted individually, separate from the
manuscript in one of the file formats listed above in Section
IV-C. Place figure captions below the figures; place table titles
above the tables. Please do not include captions as part of the
figures, or put them in ‘‘text boxes’’ linked to the figures. Also,
do not place borders around the outside of your figures.
M. COLOR PROCESSING/PRINTING IN IEEE JOURNALS

All IEEE Transactions, Journals, and Letters allow an author
to publish color figures on IEEE Xplore® at no charge, and
automatically convert them to grayscale for print versions. In
most journals, figures and tables may alternatively be printed
in color if an author chooses to do so. Please note that this
service comes at an extra expense to the author. If you intend
to have print color graphics, include a note with your final
paper indicating which figures or tables you would like to be
handled that way, and stating that you are willing to pay the
additional fee.

cited; do not put footnotes in the reference list (endnotes). Use
letters for table footnotes (see Table 1).
APPENDIX B
SUBMITTING YOUR PAPER FOR REVIEW
A. FINAL STAGE

When your article is accepted, you can submit the final
files, including figures, tables, and photos, per the journal’s
guidelines through the submission system used to submit the
articlle. You may use Zip for large files, or compress files using
Compress, Pkzip, Stuffit, or Gzip.
In addition, designate one author as the ‘‘corresponding
author.’’ This is the author to whom proofs of the paper will
be sent. Proofs are sent to the corresponding author only.
B. REVIEW STAGE USING IEEE AUTHOR PORTAL

Article contributions to IEEE Access should be submitted electronically on the IEEE Author Portal. For more information,
please visit https://ieeeaccess.ieee.org/.
Along with other information, you will be asked to select
the subject from a pull-down list. There are various steps to the
submission process; you must complete all steps for a complete
submission. At the end of each step you must click ‘‘Save and
Continue’’; just uploading the paper is not sufficient. After the
last step, you should see a confirmation that the submission
is complete. You should also receive an e-mail confirmation.
For inquiries regarding the submission of your article, please
contact ieeeaccess@ieee.org.
The manuscript should be prepared in a double column,
single-spaced format using a required IEEE Access template.
A Word or LaTeX file and a PDF file are both required upon
submission in the IEEE Author Portal.
C. FINAL STAGE USING IEEE AUTHOR PORTAL

Upon acceptance, you will receive an email with specific
instructions
Designate the author who submitted the manuscript on IEEE
Author Portal as the ‘‘corresponding author.’’ This is the only
author to whom proofs of the paper will be sent.

V. CONCLUSION

D. COPYRIGHT FORM

Although a conclusion may review the main points of the paper,
do not replicate the abstract as the conclusion. A conclusion
might elaborate on the importance of the work or suggest
applications and extensions.
If you have multiple appendices, use the \appendices
command below. If you have only one appendix, use
\appendix[Appendix Title]

Authors must submit an electronic IEEE Copyright Form
(eCF) upon submitting their final manuscript files. You can
access the eCF system through your manuscript submission
system or through the Author Gateway. You are responsible for
obtaining any necessary approvals and/or security clearances.
For additional information on intellectual property rights, visit
the IEEE Intellectual Property Rights department web page
at http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/
rights/index.html.

APPENDIX A
FOOTNOTES

Number footnotes separately in superscript numbers.1 Place
the actual footnote at the bottom of the column in which it is
1 It is recommended that footnotes be avoided (except for the unnumbered

footnote with the receipt date on the first page). Instead, try to integrate the
footnote information into the text.
VOLUME 11, 2023

APPENDIX C
IEEE PUBLISHING POLICY

The general IEEE policy requires that authors should only
submit original work that has neither appeared elsewhere
for publication, nor is under review for another refereed
5

Author et al.: Preparation of Papers for IEEE TRANSACTIONS and JOURNALS

publication. The submitting author must disclose all prior
publication(s) and current submissions when submitting a
manuscript. Do not publish ‘‘preliminary’’ data or results. To
avoid any delays in publication, please be sure to follow these
instructions. Final submissions should include source files of
your accepted manuscript, high quality graphic files, and a
formatted pdf file. If you have any questions regarding the final
submission process, please contact the administrative contact
for the journal. author is responsible for obtaining agreement
of all coauthors and any consent required from employers or
sponsors before submitting an article.
The IEEE Access Editorial Office does not publish conference records or proceedings, but can publish articles related
to conferences that have undergone rigorous peer review.
Minimally, two reviews are required for every article submitted
for peer review.
APPENDIX D
PUBLICATION PRINCIPLES

Authors should consider the following points:
1) Technical papers submitted for publication must advance
the state of knowledge and must cite relevant prior work.
2) The length of a submitted paper should be commensurate
with the importance, or appropriate to the complexity,
of the work. For example, an obvious extension of
previously published work might not be appropriate
for publication or might be adequately treated in just a
few pages.
3) Authors must convince both peer reviewers and the
editors of the scientific and technical merit of a paper;
the standards of proof are higher when extraordinary or
unexpected results are reported.
4) Because replication is required for scientific progress,
papers submitted for publication must provide sufficient information to allow readers to perform similar
experiments or calculations and use the reported results.
Although not everything need be disclosed, a paper must
contain new, useable, and fully described information.
For example, a specimen’s chemical composition need
not be reported if the main purpose of a paper is to
introduce a new measurement technique. Authors should
expect to be challenged by reviewers if the results are
not supported by adequate data and critical details.
5) Papers that describe ongoing work or announce the
latest technical achievement, which are suitable for
presentation at a professional conference, may not be
appropriate for publication.
APPENDIX E
REFERENCE EXAMPLES
•

6

Basic format for books:
J. K. Author, ‘‘Title of chapter in the book,’’ in Title of
His Published Book, xth ed. City of Publisher, (only U.S.
State), Country: Abbrev. of Publisher, year, ch. x, sec. x,
pp. xxx–xxx.
See [1], [2].

Basic format for periodicals:
J. K. Author, ‘‘Name of paper,’’ Abbrev. Title of Periodical, vol. x, no. x,pp. xxx–xxx, Abbrev. Month, year, DOI.
10.1109.XXX.123456.
See [3]–[5].
• Basic format for reports:
J. K. Author, ‘‘Title of report,’’ Abbrev. Name of Co.,
City of Co., Abbrev. State, Country, Rep. xxx, year.
See [6], [7].
• Basic format for handbooks:
Name of Manual/Handbook, x ed., Abbrev. Name of Co.,
City of Co., Abbrev. State, Country, year, pp. xxx–xxx.
See [8], [9].
• Basic format for books (when available online):
J. K. Author, ‘‘Title of chapter in the book,’’ in Title of
Published Book, xth ed. City of Publisher, State, Country:
Abbrev. of Publisher, year, ch. x, sec. x, pp. xxx–xxx.
[Online]. Available: http://www.web.com
See [10]–[13].
• Basic format for journals (when available online):
J. K. Author, ‘‘Name of paper,’’ Abbrev. Title of Periodical, vol. x, no. x, pp. xxx–xxx, Abbrev. Month, year. Accessed on: Month, Day, year, DOI: 10.1109.XXX.123456,
[Online].
See [14]–[16].
• Basic format for papers presented at conferences (when
available online):
J.K. Author. (year, month). Title. presented at abbrev. conference title. [Type of Medium]. Available: site/path/file
See [17].
• Basic format for reports and handbooks (when available
online):
J. K. Author. ‘‘Title of report,’’ Company. City, State,
Country. Rep. no., (optional: vol./issue), Date. [Online]
Available: site/path/file
See [18], [19].
• Basic format for computer programs and electronic
documents (when available online):
Legislative body. Number of Congress, Session. (year,
month day). Number of bill or resolution, Title. [Type of
medium]. Available: site/path/file
See [20].
• Basic format for patents (when available online):
Name of the invention, by inventor’s name. (year, month
day). Patent Number [Type of medium]. Available: site/path/file
See [21].
• Basic formatfor conference proceedings (published):
J. K. Author, ‘‘Title of paper,’’ in Abbreviated Name of
Conf., City of Conf., Abbrev. State (if given), Country,
year, pp. xxxxxx.
See [22].
• Example for papers presented at conferences (unpublished):
See [23].
• Basic format for patents:
•

VOLUME 11, 2023

Author et al.: Preparation of Papers for IEEE TRANSACTIONS and JOURNALS

J. K. Author, ‘‘Title of patent,’’ U.S. Patent x xxx xxx,
Abbrev. Month, day, year.
See [24].
• Basic format for theses (M.S.) and dissertations (Ph.D.):
1) J. K. Author, ‘‘Title of thesis,’’ M.S. thesis, Abbrev.
Dept., Abbrev. Univ., City of Univ., Abbrev. State,
year.
2) J. K. Author, ‘‘Title of dissertation,’’ Ph.D. dissertation, Abbrev. Dept., Abbrev. Univ., City of Univ.,
Abbrev. State, year.
See [25], [26].
• Basic format for the most common types of unpublished
references:
1) J. K. Author, private communication, Abbrev.
Month, year.
2) J. K. Author, ‘‘Title of paper,’’ unpublished.
3) J. K. Author, ‘‘Title of paper,’’ to be published.
See [27]–[29].
• Basic formats for standards:
1) Title of Standard, Standard number, date.
2) Title of Standard, Standard number, Corporate
author, location, date.
See [30], [31].
• Article number in reference examples:
See [32], [33].
• Example when using et al.:
See [34].
ACKNOWLEDGMENT

The preferred spelling of the word ‘‘acknowledgment’’ in
American English is without an ‘‘e’’ after the ‘‘g.’’ Use the
singular heading even if you have many acknowledgments.
Avoid expressions such as ‘‘One of us (S.B.A.) would like
to thank . . . .’’ Instead, write ‘‘F. A. Author thanks . . . .’’ In
most cases, sponsor and financial support acknowledgments
are placed in the unnumbered footnote on the first page, not
here.
REFERENCES
[1] G. O. Young, ‘‘Synthetic structure of industrial plastics,’’ in Plastics, 2nd ed.,
vol. 3, J. Peters, Ed. New York, NY, USA: McGraw-Hill, 1964, pp. 15–64.
[2] W.-K. Chen, Linear Networks and Systems. Belmont, CA, USA: Wadsworth,
1993, pp. 123–135.
[3] J. U. Duncombe, ‘‘Infrared navigation—Part I: An assessment of feasibility,’’
IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, vol. ED-11, no. 1, pp. 34–39, Jan. 1959,
10.1109/TED.2016.2628402.
[4] E. P. Wigner, ‘‘Theory of traveling-wave optical laser,’’ Phys. Rev., vol. 134,
pp. A635–A646, Dec. 1965.
[5] E. H. Miller, ‘‘A note on reflector arrays,’’ IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat.,
to be published.
[6] E. E. Reber, R. L. Michell, and C. J. Carter, ‘‘Oxygen absorption in the
earth’s atmosphere,’’ Aerospace Corp., Los Angeles, CA, USA, Tech. Rep.
TR-0200 (4230-46)-3, Nov. 1988.
[7] J. H. Davis and J. R. Cogdell, ‘‘Calibration program for the 16-foot antenna,’’
Elect. Eng. Res. Lab., Univ. Texas, Austin, TX, USA, Tech. Memo. NGL006-69-3, Nov. 15, 1987.
[8] Transmission Systems for Communications, 3rd ed., Western Electric Co.,
Winston-Salem, NC, USA, 1985, pp. 44–60.
[9] Motorola Semiconductor Data Manual, Motorola Semiconductor Products
Inc., Phoenix, AZ, USA, 1989.
VOLUME 11, 2023

[10] G. O. Young, ‘‘Synthetic structure of industrial plastics,’’ in Plastics, vol. 3, Polymers of Hexadromicon, J. Peters, Ed., 2nd ed. New
York, NY, USA: McGraw-Hill, 1964, pp. 15-64. [Online]. Available:
http://www.bookref.com.
[11] The Founders’ Constitution, Philip B. Kurland and Ralph Lerner, eds.,
Chicago, IL, USA: Univ. Chicago Press, 1987. [Online]. Available:
http://press-pubs.uchicago.edu/founders/
[12] The Terahertz Wave eBook. ZOmega Terahertz Corp., 2014. [Online]. Available: http://dl.z-thz.com/eBook/zomegaebookpdf_1206_sr.pdf. Accessed
on: May 19, 2014.
[13] Philip B. Kurland and Ralph Lerner, eds., The Founders’ Constitution.
Chicago, IL, USA: Univ. of Chicago Press, 1987, Accessed on: Feb. 28,
2010, [Online] Available: http://press-pubs.uchicago.edu/founders/
[14] J. S. Turner, ‘‘New directions in communications,’’ IEEE J. Sel. Areas
Commun., vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 11-23, Jan. 1995.
[15] W. P. Risk, G. S. Kino, and H. J. Shaw, ‘‘Fiber-optic frequency shifter using
a surface acoustic wave incident at an oblique angle,’’ Opt. Lett., vol. 11,
no. 2, pp. 115–117, Feb. 1986.
[16] P. Kopyt et al., ‘‘Electric properties of graphene-based conductive layers
from DC up to terahertz range,’’ IEEE THz Sci. Technol., to be published.
DOI: 10.1109/TTHZ.2016.2544142.
[17] PROCESS Corporation, Boston, MA, USA. Intranets: Internet
technologies deployed behind the firewall for corporate productivity.
Presented at INET96 Annual Meeting. [Online]. Available:
http://home.process.com/Intranets/wp2.htp
[18] R. J. Hijmans and J. van Etten, ‘‘Raster: Geographic analysis and modeling
with raster data,’’ R Package Version 2.0-12, Jan. 12, 2012. [Online].
Available: http://CRAN.R-project.org/package=raster
[19] Teralyzer. Lytera UG, Kirchhain, Germany [Online]. Available:
http://www.lytera.de/Terahertz_THz_Spectroscopy.php?id=home,
Accessed on: Jun. 5, 2014.
[20] U.S. House. 102nd Congress, 1st Session. (1991, Jan. 11). H. Con. Res. 1,
Sense of the Congress on Approval of Military Action. [Online]. Available:
LEXIS Library: GENFED File: BILLS
[21] Musical toothbrush with mirror, by L.M.R. Brooks. (1992, May 19). Patent
D 326 189 [Online]. Available: NEXIS Library: LEXPAT File: DES
[22] D. B. Payne and J. R. Stern, ‘‘Wavelength-switched pas- sively coupled
single-mode optical network,’’ in Proc. IOOC-ECOC, Boston, MA, USA,
1985, pp. 585–590.
[23] D. Ebehard and E. Voges, ‘‘Digital single sideband detection for interferometric sensors,’’ presented at the 2nd Int. Conf. Optical Fiber Sensors,
Stuttgart, Germany, Jan. 2-5, 1984.
[24] G. Brandli and M. Dick, ‘‘Alternating current fed power supply,’’ U.S. Patent
4 084 217, Nov. 4, 1978.
[25] J. O. Williams, ‘‘Narrow-band analyzer,’’ Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. Elect.
Eng., Harvard Univ., Cambridge, MA, USA, 1993.
[26] N. Kawasaki, ‘‘Parametric study of thermal and chemical nonequilibrium
nozzle flow,’’ M.S. thesis, Dept. Electron. Eng., Osaka Univ., Osaka, Japan,
1993.
[27] A. Harrison, private communication, May 1995.
[28] B. Smith, ‘‘An approach to graphs of linear forms,’’ unpublished.
[29] A. Brahms, ‘‘Representation error for real numbers in binary computer
arithmetic,’’ IEEE Computer Group Repository, Paper R-67-85.
[30] IEEE Criteria for Class IE Electric Systems, IEEE Standard 308, 1969.
[31] Letter Symbols for Quantities, ANSI Standard Y10.5-1968.
[32] R. Fardel, M. Nagel, F. Nuesch, T. Lippert, and A. Wokaun, ‘‘Fabrication
of organic light emitting diode pixels by laser-assisted forward transfer,’’
Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 91, no. 6, Aug. 2007, Art. no. 061103.
[33] J. Zhang and N. Tansu, ‘‘Optical gain and laser characteristics of InGaN
quantum wells on ternary InGaN substrates,’’ IEEE Photon. J., vol. 5, no. 2,
Apr. 2013, Art. no. 2600111
[34] S. Azodolmolky et al., Experimental demonstration of an impairment aware
network planning and operation tool for transparent/translucent optical
networks,’’ J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 29, no. 4, pp. 439–448, Sep. 2011.

7

Author et al.: Preparation of Papers for IEEE TRANSACTIONS and JOURNALS

FIRST A. AUTHOR received the B.S. and M.S.
degrees in aerospace engineering from the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, in 2001 and
the Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering from
Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, in 2008.
From 2001 to 2004, he was a Research Assistant with the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory.
Since 2009, he has been an Assistant Professor with
the Mechanical Engineering Department, Texas
A&M University, College Station. He is the author of three books, more than 150 articles, and more than 70 inventions.
His research interests include high-pressure and high-density nonthermal
plasma discharge processes and applications, microscale plasma discharges,
discharges in liquids, spectroscopic diagnostics, plasma propulsion, and
innovation plasma applications. He is an Associate Editor of the journal
Earth, Moon, Planets, and holds two patents.
Dr. Author was a recipient of the International Association of Geomagnetism and Aeronomy Young Scientist Award for Excellence in 2008, and the
IEEE Electromagnetic Compatibility Society Best Symposium Paper Award
in 2011.

THIRD C. AUTHOR, JR. (M’87) received the B.S. degree in mechanical
engineering from National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi, Taiwan, in 2004
and the M.S. degree in mechanical engineering from National Tsing Hua
University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, in 2006. He is currently pursuing the Ph.D.
degree in mechanical engineering at Texas A&M University, College Station,
TX, USA.
From 2008 to 2009, he was a Research Assistant with the Institute of
Physics, Academia Sinica, Tapei, Taiwan. His research interest includes
the development of surface processing and biological/medical treatment
techniques using nonthermal atmospheric pressure plasmas, fundamental
study of plasma sources, and fabrication of micro- or nanostructured surfaces.
Mr. Author’s awards and honors include the Frew Fellowship (Australian
Academy of Science), the I. I. Rabi Prize (APS), the European Frequency and
Time Forum Award, the Carl Zeiss Research Award, the William F. Meggers
Award and the Adolph Lomb Medal (OSA).

SECOND B. AUTHOR (M’76–SM’81–F’87) and
all authors may include biographies. Biographies
are often not included in conference-related papers.
This author became a Member (M) of IEEE in 1976,
a Senior Member (SM) in 1981, and a Fellow (F)
in 1987. The first paragraph may contain a place
and/or date of birth (list place, then date). Next,
the author’s educational background is listed. The
degrees should be listed with type of degree in what
field, which institution, city, state, and country, and
year the degree was earned. The author’s major field of study should be lowercased.
The second paragraph uses the pronoun of the person (he or she) and
not the author’s last name. It lists military and work experience, including
summer and fellowship jobs. Job titles are capitalized. The current job must
have a location; previous positions may be listed without one. Information
concerning previous publications may be included. Try not to list more than
three books or published articles. The format for listing publishers of a book
within the biography is: title of book (publisher name, year) similar to a
reference. Current and previous research interests end the paragraph.
The third paragraph begins with the author’s title and last name (e.g.,
Dr. Smith, Prof. Jones, Mr. Kajor, Ms. Hunter). List any memberships in
professional societies other than the IEEE. Finally, list any awards and work
for IEEE committees and publications. If a photograph is provided, it should
be of good quality, and professional-looking. Following are two examples of
an author’s biography.

8

VOLUME 11, 2023

